
This directory contains implementations of the core ASCON permutation in
C and assembly code for various architectures.

The specific permutation implementation is selected by the include file
"ascon-select-backend.h" which defines the macro ASCON\_BACKEND\_XYZ
to select the XYZ backend.  You may need to modify the #ifdef's in this
file if your preferred backend is not recognised.

The "ascon-select-backend.h" file may also define one of the following
extra macros to select the SnP API implementation:

ASCON\_BACKEND\_DIRECT\_XOR
    Bytes can be directly XOR'ed with the ASCON state to absorb data,
    and directly copied out to squeeze data.

ASCON\_BACKEND\_SLICED32
    The backend uses the 32-bit bit-sliced method to represent the state.
    64-bit words in the ASCON state are split into two 32-bit halves with
    the even and odd bits from the original 64-bit word.  This representation
    usually works best on 32-bit systems.

ASCON\_BACKEND\_SLICED64
    The backend uses 64-bit words but they are stored in host byte order
    instead of the canonical big-endian byte order of the ASCON specification.
    This representation usually works best on 64-bit systems.

If "ascon-select-backend.h" cannot locate an assembly code implementation,
it will fall back to "ascon-c64.c" on recognised 64-bit platforms.  Otherwise
it will fall back to "ascon-c32.c".

The assembly code implementations were generated using the programs
under the "tools" directory.  These tools make it easier to audit the
implementation for correctness and to apply incremental optimisations
over time.

The generator tools can also be reused across similar platforms; for example,
the "armv6" backend is generated by the same tool as the "armv7m" backend
because other than the ARM-vs-thumb instruction encoding issue, the code is
almost identical.  The "armv7m" backend took quite some time to evolve into
its current state.  The "armv6" backend was done in a few hours.

If you wish to submit a new backend implementation, please consider writing
such a tool for your platform rather than writing the assembly code by hand.
Or modify one of the existing tools that is close enough to almost work.
